Okay,
guys,
Welcome back.
Now we're gonna have a look at the three rounding functions that built into excel,
and they are round,
round up and rammed down.
Now,
you may wonder why you would want to use a rounding function.
So if we look over here column l you'll see that we have a couple of inter GIs.
We have six,
and we have eight.
We have some numbers that calculated out toe,
one decimal place.
But we also have some one of several decimal places.
No.
Do we really want to know that our average daily sales of oranges is 6.16666667?
Or would we like to say,
Do you know what?
Let's just call it six,
or let's just call it seven.
So this is what we would use a rounding function for.
Okay,
let's begin and have a look at all three of the rounding functions just so we can see the
data.
Clearly,
I'm going to do what we did in the last lecture.
I'm just gonna hide all of our sales on Monday through Saturday,
so I've just highlighted them all.
I'm just going to right click and click Hide they go Now it's sticking the title of our
three functions.
We have round,
we have round up,
Then we have round down.
Okay,
let's just make those a little bit wider so we can see nice and clearly they go now around
is a built in function on because it's gonna be a formula with type and we're just gonna
type equals we're gonna type round,
we're going to hit open brackets And now we can have a look at the tool tip to give us a
clue as to the structure of the formula so we can see that we already have round there.
So it's already narrowed it down for us on The first thing is looking for is a number.
Now the number we're gonna work on is this one just here.
So I'm just gonna left Click it on.
We can see from the tool tip that the next thing we require is a comment.
So I'm gonna hit comer,
and there you can see that number of digits has been bold ID.
So what I'm gonna do for now from type zero,
close the brackets,
which encapsulates the arguments and hit.
Enter.
So they go.
We can no see that are rounded.
6.833333 becomes seven.
Now,
I'm just going to copy that formula all the way down.
And we've done this before.
We just hover over this little box up the corner until a cursor changes DoubleClick and
that you can see that I formulas been copied all the way,
then Okay,
Next,
let's type in a round up function.
It would help if I could type so around up,
open rackets again,
you can see that we need to enter a number.
So we're just going to click the same number again.
We're going to stick with the same format hit,
comma type zero closer brackets and hit Enter Andi.
Just going to copy that formula down.
And then I'm gonna write in the round down function.
So round down open rackets,
I'm going to select the same number again.
Hit comma number digits.
I'm gonna stick to zero just so we can see the differences hit,
enter and then copied that formula down.
Okay,
let's have a look at what we've got.
if we just look at our top line our apples.
We can see that an average daily sales exactly worked out to 6.8 and a lot of threes after
it.
Now we round 6.820 decimal places.
We can see that it ran its to seven,
which is pretty obvious because 6.8 is nearest the seventh and it is 26 If we look over at
the rammed up,
we can see a game that it's been rounded to seven.
Because this time we've explicitly told Excel to round up.
And if we look at the round down,
we can see that it signalled the 8.3 on its rounded down to the nearest whole number being
six.
So rounding down takes you down to the nearest whole number.
Rounding up takes you up to the nearest whole number on ground.
Just rains to the nearest whole number based on whatever the decimal places are after your
interview.
Okay,
so we can see if we look down the data that 6.1666 has been rounded to six,
obviously,
because it's nearer to six,
the new this to seven rounding up takes us up seven because seven is the next nearest large
number on rounding down again takes us specifically down to six and so on and so forth.
So all the nice and straightforward so far.
Now you'll remember that we had comma zero,
which means that we're gonna have no decimal places.
If you change your mind and you want to change everything to,
let's say one decimal place,
there's a very quick way of doing this.
No,
we know because if we click in here,
we can see we have round zero.
And if we scroll through them,
let me just move the curse right away.
If we scroll through,
then we can see that every single one of them saves comma zero.
And there's a very fast way to change all of those in one go.
What we're gonna do is highlight the entire range.
We're gonna hit control and f on.
What we're gonna do is type comma zero,
which is the one thing that's common to all of our formulas that we've just written.
We're gonna hit the replace button on.
We're going to say,
Comma,
did you say one?
Let's say one combat one,
and then we're gonna hit the replace all button and they go.
You consider Excel has told us it's made 33 replacements.
Just click.
OK,
we can close that now.
If we have a look at our formula,
we can see that we now have round l five comma one So that formulas changed that formless,
changed comma one,
as has that as has that one.
In fact,
all of them know,
say comma one.
So it's a very quick way of changing all your formulas if if they have a common element and
you just want to change one aspect off them.
Okay,
so now we can see if we've gone toe one day,
small place that all of their answers now equate to a whole number a decimal place and one
digit after the decimal place.
Now,
at the moment,
it looks a bit ugly because we've got lots of decimal places displayed.
So what we're going to do in the next lecture is have a look out of four matter attacks,
so it looks a little more uniform.
Okay,
So you in the next lecture